All right, I need a little help this morning if you're willing to enable.
In just a second, I'm going to put a few lyrics from a song on the screen.
And I'd like for you, if you can, help me fill in the last line or the next lyric that's coming.
Here we go.
Romeo saved me.
They're trying to tell me how to feel.
This love is difficult, but it's real.
Don't be afraid.
We'll make it out of this mess.
It's a love story, baby just say yes.
Now for some of you, you might be wondering what is that?
Those are the lyrics, some of the lyrics from Taylor Swift's love story.
A song from 2008, it's actually a really, it's a pretty creative song.
What she's done is taken the story of Romeo and Juliet and she's trying to give it a happy ending.
So instead of death, she has Romeo get down on his knee and propose
And the idea is that they sort of live happily ever after.
But the interesting thing about even teenage Taylor Swift's idea of love is that although she's tried to give it a happy ending, even in the song you heard it in the lyric, this love is difficult, but it's real.
The idea is you can't take all of the cost out of love, or it's not love anymore.
You can't take the suffering out, you can't take the difficulty out, or it's no longer love.
And even if you want to give a happy ending, in the song it's still clear that Juliet's dad doesn't want Romeo around, that Juliet feels alone and difficulty in this whole thing, and that no matter what, as happy as it might be, for love to be something,
It has to actually mean something, and for it to mean something, it has to cost something.
All love involves sacrifice.
You see, this is the Sunday before Christmas.
And at Christmas, we think about hope, peace, joy.
But sometimes at Christmas, we forget that it's ultimately about love.
The Christmas is a love story.
It's a love story between God and us.
And that sometimes you can actually have hope without it costing you anything.
You can feel at peace without it costing anything.
You could just wake up in the morning and be filled with joy for no reason and it doesn't cost you anything.
But it's impossible to be loved and to love without it costing something.
Last week we explored the most momentous truth in all the universe.
God is love.
But we didn't define what is love.
Well, this morning we get to come to understand that what makes love love is that there is a cost involved.
There is a sacrifice required, that if we take away all the difficulty, if we take away all the negativity, if we take away all of the hard endings, we're not left with love at all anymore.
And so this morning, this Christmas, we want to be reminded that ultimately Christmas
is a love story of how God loves us.
And we want to come to understand that better.
So let me invite you, if you're willing, to take a Bible and turn to the book of 1 John chapter 4.
If you don't have a Bible with you, there's one in the rack in front of you.
In those Bibles, it's page 988.
In the same way, we might put Taylor Swift's lyrics on the screen so that we can see them and read them together.
We're opening up our Bibles because it's worth reading what God has written to us.
In many ways, these are lyrics to a beautiful, perfect love song from God to us.
And so invite you, if you've never even opened a Bible, just take one.
It just looks like this from in front of the rack in front of you.
Turn to page 988, which is a letter from Apostle John.
We're in chapter four in the church Bibles, that's on the left hand column of page 988, and we're gonna read verses seven to 10.
So last week we looked at this whole passage.
This week we're just going to focus on verses seven through 10.
First John chapter four, page 988.
This is what God says to us through the Apostle John.
Dear friends, let us love one another for love comes from God.
Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God.
Whoever does not love does not know God because God is love.
This is how God showed his love among us.
He sent his one and only son into the world that we might live through him.
This is love.
Not that we loved God, but that he loved us.
and sent His Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
We said last week that all love comes from God.
That any love that exists in the world has ultimately God as its source.
That even human love can give us some vision of what God's love is like for us.
So Taylor Swift is as good a guide as any in the non-Christian world of seeing things that we can learn about love.
And even a teenage Taylor Swift comes to recognize there is no such thing as love without a cost.
Now as we think about this, in Taylor Swift's song, Love Story, she tells the story from Juliet's point of view.
There's a little bit of Romeo at the end, but it's essentially her story, and so she's telling it from Juliet's point of view.
God has written this passage,
And he's effectively telling us his love for us from his point of view.
So while this morning we could talk about Jesus' love for us because he absolutely does love us.
And he did all that was asked of him because he loves us.
But this passage is written to tell us how God the Father loves us.
And he shows us this love in two ways.
First, verse nine,
what we traditionally think of as Christmas.
He shows us his love in Jesus becoming human.
And then in verse 10, what we traditionally think of as Easter.
God the Father shows us his love in the death of Jesus Christ, his son on a cross.
And so this morning, as we are reminded that it cost God something to love us, we want to think about God's love for us
in terms of what God has done for us at Christmas and what God has done for us at Easter.
So we begin in verse nine with Christmas.
This is how God showed his love among us.
He sent his one and only son into the world that we might live through him.
Now one of the great things about studying or reading an entire book of the Bible
It's like listening to a song and listening to all the lyrics and not just a few, is that when you get the context of everything that's being written, you have a better understanding of what the individual parts mean.
Well, we have a better understanding when it says that God loved us by sending his son into this world.
We have a better understanding because we've been looking at the book of 1 John for most of the year.
And what we've come to understand is as God says that when He sent His Son into this world, He's not just talking about the created world, this beautiful world that we live in, a world of trees, of stars in the sky, of moonlight and serene lakes and beautiful hills.
He also sent His Son into a world that's full of cultures and societies and technologies and governments.
that are under, according to 1 John, the control of the evil one.
The whole world is under control.
This is the world that God the Father is choosing to send His Son into.
Into a world that is antagonistic to God and will be antagonistic toward His Son.
That God is making the choice to send Jesus into this world.
that's under the control of his enemy, Satan.
And so in verse nine, we want to understand that from God, the father's point of view, there was a great cost involved in choosing to send his son.
In fact, this morning, I'd like to share with you seven things that cost God something in the choices he made of sending his son
to become human, to live among us.
The first is that God the Father chose to place Jesus into this world in circumstances that appeared to be incredibly shameful from a sin point of view, meaning this.
Even an angel had to come and tell Joseph that Mary hadn't been unfaithful.
because everybody thought she had.
I mean, after all, here's a woman who's not married, who's pregnant.
And her betrothed is like, well, there's only one explanation for that because I didn't sleep with her.
An angel has to come and say, no, Joseph, what is in her is a baby, which is from God.
Now, it's hard enough today to believe that Jesus was born of a virgin.
Imagine 2,000 years ago.
before anybody knew who Jesus was going to be.
You see, the evidence for the shameful nature of this is that we often say at Christmas time that He was born in a stable because no room for Him at the inn.
But then you go back and you realize, 2,000 years ago there were not a lot of holiday inns.
It wasn't like Joseph forgot to book something, knowing it was census, and then gets on Airbnb and realizes everything is gone.
And he's just going to kind of show up.
This is not how the world worked back then.
Joseph is from Bethlehem.
That's where his relatives live.
When it says there's no room for him at the end, the NIV has shifted the translation to say there was no guest room available for him.
None of his relatives want them to stay with him.
I mean, beyond that.
Hospitality is an important thing in Middle Eastern culture, especially 2,000 years ago.
Can you imagine anybody seeing a pregnant woman about to give birth and being like, uh, you should stay in the manger?
The only reason anybody would do this is if they think the mom and the kid are cursed because of sin.
These are the circumstances that God, the father, places his son into.
Joseph knows and Mary knows, but everybody else thinks that this is a shameful birth.
Second, God chooses to place his son into a poor family.
Jesus grows up in poverty.
We know this because, again, in the Old Testament, when you were given a baby, you said thank you to God by giving and offering.
And there were two choices, either the upper class and middle class offering, which was the lamb, or there was the poor class offering.
And that was you gave a pigeon, because anybody could go out, catch a pigeon, and sacrifice it.
The birth of Jesus Mary gives a pigeon, because her and Joseph are poor.
Jesus grows up in poverty.
Third, God the Father chooses to place Jesus in a situation where at His birth, He's an enemy of the state.
Even before He's born, Herod wants to kill Him.
Herod is so desperate to kill Him that He searches everywhere for Jesus and when He can't find Him, even before Jesus is even potty drained.
Herod orders all the babies in the general area who are too and under killed in his attempt to get to Jesus.
Four, because they are enemies of the state, early on Mary, Joseph, and baby Jesus have to travel to Egypt to get away from Herod in the Middle East, which makes Jesus a refugee.
seeking political asylum.
He grows up in a culture that is foreign to him and to his parents.
And some of you may remember you where we did a series on race and ethnicity about a year and a half ago, we talked about the fact that Egyptians at that time discriminated against Hebrews.
They discriminated against Jews, they didn't like them.
And Jesus is first years of his life.
are lived in a culture that is antagonistic towards him, discriminates against him.
Where there is no family, no friends, no one to help them.
Fifth, God places his son, Jesus, into a family where it appears that the adoptive father, Joseph, dies relatively early on.
Which means that Jesus is raised by a single mom.
with all of the challenges and difficulties in which that results in being that situation.
Jesus grows up fatherless in that situation.
Number six, God also places Jesus into a family in which his siblings are antagonistic towards him.
Jesus has half brothers and sisters.
They're half brothers because Jesus' father is God and his mother is Mary.
His siblings have Mary as a mother and Joseph as a father.
But those siblings, the Bible tells us, were antagonistic towards Jesus, mocking him, insulting him, trying to work against him, obeying his father.
And then seven, Jesus is placed into a situation where he is misunderstood by everyone.
We have one story from when Jesus is 12 years old.
His parents don't seem to understand what he's up to and what he's supposed to be doing.
When he grows up, his disciples don't understand him.
The religious leaders don't understand him.
The people of the culture don't understand him.
His own family doesn't understand him.
He is misunderstood by everyone.
Now again, we can talk about these as the sufferings and the love of Jesus for us that he was willing to do this.
But if you've ever loved somebody, you understand something of the suffering that God the Father went through because he chose
to place Jesus in these difficult situations.
You see, sometimes we think that Jesus lived a wonderful life and just kind of had a really bad last week.
Like he just got to show up as God in the flesh.
He did a bunch of miracles.
He walks around on water.
He's like, hey, look at this.
And hey, look, I'll make a bunch of food.
And I'm gonna heal a bunch of people.
And yeah, life is fantastic.
And then, oh, last week, terrible week, but okay, got through that.
No, the truth of the matter is Isaiah says that Jesus lived a difficult life from the day he was born until the day he would die.
He died.
He was a man of sorrows, well familiar with suffering.
It wasn't like the last week showed up and he was like, what is this?
Now it was just the culmination of an entire life that was incredibly difficult to live.
And again,
Jesus loves us by being willing to do this.
But if you've ever loved somebody, you're far more willing to take the bad stuff on yourself than to ask somebody else that you love to go through those things.
God, the Father was willing to do this and ask Jesus to do these things, to go through a difficult life because He loves you.
And he loves me.
That's verse nine, verse 10.
That's Christmas, verse 10 Easter.
This is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
We say it's not just that Jesus had a really hard week, he had a hard life, but he also had a really, really hard week at the end of his life.
a ridiculously hard week.
Three things to say about the suffering that God the Father went through in Jesus' last week.
Number one, He sent His Son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins.
I can only imagine the grief and the pain
from God the Father as he's watching Jesus pray in the Garden of Gethsemane.
If there was ever a prayer that God was desperate to answer, if there was ever a prayer he so badly wanted to do, it was the prayer of his perfect, beautiful, amazing son who had done everything that the Father had asked him to do.
that in the Garden of Gethsemane, Jesus with tears in his eyes is begging his Father.
Please don't make me go through this.
Please, if there's any other way, he is distraught, crying out to God to the point of death.
Please, Father.
And I have to imagine of all the prayers ever prayed.
That's the one.
God the Father most wanted to answer.
But He didn't.
Why?
Because He loves you.
And He loves me.
And so the hardest know that He'd ever had to give.
He gave.
So that you and I could have life.
Second, he sent his son as an atoning sacrifice.
Another passage says, God the Father made Jesus who knew no sin to be sin for us.
And I have to imagine what did it cost God the Father?
to let Jesus become the thing that he hates.
God hates sin.
He hates injustice.
He hates bitterness.
He hates anger.
He hates selfishness.
Jesus never did any of those things, but at his death, God placed on Jesus our selfishness, our bitterness, our anger.
And Jesus became the very thing that God hates.
And as terrible as the physical suffering was, the far greater suffering is at the moment that Jesus needs him the most.
The moment when his precious one and only son is all alone and cries out, Father, why have you forsaken
At that moment, God the Father has to turn his back because Jesus has become, at God's choosing, the very thing that God cannot stand.
He did that for us.
So hard as this to understand that even today, some people want to accuse God the Father of cosmic child abuse.
How could anybody do this?
There's no logical explanation.
There's no rational explanation.
The only possible explanation is because he loves you and he loves me.
And there simply wasn't another way.
This is what it cost for us to have life.
And then finally,
He sent his son as an atoning sacrifice.
In Christianity, we use the word sacrifice so much we forget what it means.
A sacrifice is a sacrifice.
It costs something.
It costs the one who is giving the sacrifice.
God the Father is giving Jesus.
Jesus is his sacrifice.
He is sacrificing something.
for Jesus to come, for Jesus to die.
Some of us think, oh, well, Jesus kind of became human for 30, 35, 40 years.
Okay, that's a tough stretch.
I'll grant you that.
But in eternity, while the 40 years, that's not so bad.
But the reality as verse nine says, he sent his one and only son into the world that we might live through him.
Because our life is tied to Him being human, Jesus did not become human for 30 or 40 years.
He became human forever and ever.
There's no undoing this.
There's no going back.
We continue to live because He's human.
And we will never fully understand the sacrifice that God the Father made in asking Jesus to become human for eternity.
But He did it for us.
As much as we might wish that there was love without sacrifice, there is no such thing.
So if you hear nothing else this Christmas season, if nothing else goes well, if everything about this season is horrendous, worse than you could have possibly imagined.
I want you to know this.
You are loved.
You are totally and completely loved.
At every point,
God the Father chose brutally difficult, hard things.
He sent Jesus to become human.
He asked His precious Son to go through the worst life imaginable and die the most horrific death that anyone has ever died.
Because He loves you and He loves me.
God has shown His love
in doing this.
Not Christmastime.
We often think of giving presence.
That comes from the fact that God is love and God demonstrates His love by giving Jesus.
But I want you to think for a moment.
that if you've drawn the name of somebody, or there's somebody that you love that you're gonna buy a present for, and you have spent all year thinking about this present, and you've put a bunch of money into it, and you put a bunch of time into it, and a bunch of effort into it, and you've wrapped it all up, and you've placed it beneath the tree, and you can't wait for Christmas morning, because you know, this present is fantastic.
It's gonna change their life.
How would you feel if someone says, no, I'm not open to that present?
How would you feel if they said, yeah, no, thank you.
I'm not interested.
Even if it had really nice terms, like, I'm not worthy of that, or I don't deserve a present.
I haven't been good enough this year.
How would you feel?
The present's already bought.
It's under the tree.
The cost has already been paid.
You didn't do it because they deserved it.
You did it because you loved them.
How would you feel if at that moment, when you hand them the present, they say, no, thank you.
What God is saying is, I've already bought the present.
Jesus has already become human for eternity.
Jesus has already gone through these things.
He's already died on a cross.
Long before you and I were born, God prepared this present, wrapped it up and has placed it under the tree.
And this Christmas, He is saying to you, this is my present to you because I love you.
and as noble as the response may be, but I'm not worthy.
I've messed up too much.
The truth of the matter is the present's been purchased.
And all you gotta do, the right answer is the same answer you want if you've bought somebody a present that costs you a ton, that can't be returned, that was done out of love for you.
The right response is, thank you.
That's all God's looking for.
He just wants you to accept the present.
And you do that by you just say, thank you in your heart.
Because some people are like, well, I'll take the present because I feel so because I'll just never use it.
It's already been purchased.
God did it because there wasn't any other way for us to have life.
There wasn't any other way for us to be with Him.
And so He asked His Son to do these things for our sake.
Now for some of us here this morning who are already Christians, we've accepted the present and we're grateful.
We got the present.
We opened the present.
We're like, this is amazing.
Thank you.
But there's a danger with Christmas presents.
And that is if you open the present and you maybe you've had it for a little while, sometimes you start to wish it was a different present.
Now I don't think any of us here want somebody other than Jesus.
But here's what I mean by that.
Sometimes you wish the president didn't cost so much.
Sometimes you wish the president didn't involve so much struggle and suffering.
Because by accepting the present, you're also thinking to yourself, well, now I'm going to have to give something back.
I'm going to have to give something that costs me.
What we wish, especially at Christmas, is that there's no cost.
It's just all easy.
It's all free.
But that's not love.
And some of us look at God and wish that the present He got us didn't have so much suffering.
So the presence we give Him don't have to have that much suffering.
We want God to just make all the mental health issues that we have go away.
We want God to just heal us of all of our sickness.
We want God to provide all full employment whenever we want to work with plenty of good salary.
We want God to provide the relationship.
We don't want to struggle with loneliness.
We don't want to be single.
We don't want the gift to cost this much.
And so one of the dangers for people who have already accepted the gift is that we forget how much the gift costs.
And the truth of the matter is this Christmas.
If we're going to love God in return, it's going to cost us something.
If we're going to love others, it's going to cost us something.
Even Taylor Swift figured out, if you take all the costs out of love, it's not love anymore.
And for some of us this Christmas season, we just need to be reminded that God has loved us enough to ask us to pay something to love others and to love Him in return.
God is love.
What does it mean to love?
Love costs.
There's always sacrifice associated with love at Christmas and at Easter.
God has shown how much he loves us.
He gave his son so that we might have life.
He asked his son to die so that we might have life forever.
This is love, not that we loved God, but that He loved us.
If you take nothing else away this Christmas season, even if you don't open the present, please know that you are love.